README.md, before:

# Lexis

**Autonomous i18n Agent** — Paste a public Next.js (App Router) GitHub repo URL, pick target languages, and get a real Pull Request that adds full i18n: hardcoded strings extracted, next-intl wired up, and translations generated via [Lingo.dev](https://lingo.dev).

- **Paste URL** → **Globalize** → **Watch live progress** → **Open PR**

---

## Tech stack

| Layer | Tool |
|-------|------|
| App | Next.js 14 (App Router), React, TypeScript, Tailwind |
| Data & realtime | Supabase (Postgres + Realtime) |
| AI transform | Google Gemini |
| Translation | Lingo.dev CLI |
| GitHub | Octokit, simple-git |
| Parsing | Babel (parser + traverse) |

---

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- [Supabase](https://supabase.com) project
- GitHub bot account (PAT with `repo` + `pull_request` scopes)
- [Google AI](https://ai.google.dev) API key (Gemini)
- [Lingo.dev](https://lingo.dev) API key

### Install

```bash
npm install
```

### Environment

Copy env vars into `.env.local` (see [architecture.md](./architecture.md) for full schema):

```bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=

# GitHub (bot PAT)
GITHUB_TOKEN=
GITHUB_BOT_USERNAME=

# Google Gemini
GEMINI_API_KEY=

# Lingo.dev
LINGODOTDEV_API_KEY=
```

Apply migrations in the Supabase dashboard (or via CLI) from `supabase/migrations/`.

#### Deployment (production)

Set these so sign-in and callbacks never redirect to localhost:

```bash
# Your app’s public URL (required for OAuth redirects)
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://your-domain.com
# Optional: same idea for server-side fetch (Vercel sets VERCEL_URL automatically)
NEXT_PUBLIC_BASE_URL=https://your-domain.com
```

**Supabase (Authentication → URL Configuration):**

- **Site URL**: set to your production URL (e.g. `https://your-domain.com`), not `http://localhost:3000`.
- **Redirect URLs**: add your callback, e.g. `https://your-domain.com/auth/callback`.

If Site URL or Redirect URLs stay as localhost, the browser will be sent to localhost after GitHub sign-in and the connection will fail in production.

**Git required for the pipeline:** The agent clones and pushes repos using the system `git` binary. To ensure Git exists in production:

- **Use the included Dockerfile** (recommended): It uses a Node image and installs `git`. Build and run the image on any Docker host (Railway, Fly.io, Render, AWS ECS, etc.):
  ```bash
  docker build -t lexis .
  docker run -p 3000:3000 --env-file .env lexis
  ```
- **Railway / Render / Fly.io**: Deploy from the repo; if the platform builds from the Dockerfile, Git will be present. On Railway and Render you can select "Dockerfile" as the build option.
- **Vercel**: The default serverless runtime does not include Git and cannot install it. Use one of the options above instead, or run only the frontend on Vercel and host the pipeline API elsewhere (e.g. a small Node server with Git).

### Run

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000), paste a public Next.js App Router repo URL, choose languages, and click **Globalize This Repo**. You’ll be redirected to the job page with live logs and a PR link when it’s done.

---

## Scripts

| Command | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start Next.js dev server (via `scripts/dev.js`) |
| `npm run build` | Production build |
| `npm run start` | Run production server |
| `npm run lint` | Next.js lint |
| `npm run test` | Run Vitest unit tests |
| `npm run test:watch` | Vitest watch mode |
| `npm run test:e2e` | Playwright e2e tests |

---

## Project structure

```
├── app/                 # Next.js App Router (pages, API routes, auth)
├── components/          # React UI (forms, job progress, dashboard, theme)
├── lib/                 # Supabase clients, agent pipeline, steps, repo detector
├── types/               # Shared TypeScript types
├── supabase/migrations/ # DB schema (jobs, user profiles)
├── __tests__/           # Unit tests (Vitest)
├── e2e/                 # E2E tests (Playwright)
└── scripts/             # Dev server and utilities
```

The agent pipeline lives under `lib/agent/`: clone → scan → setup i18n → transform (Gemini) → translate (Lingo.dev) → commit/push → open PR.

---

## Docs

- **[architecture.md](./architecture.md)** — Technical plan, schema, env, pipeline steps, and failure handling
- **[TESTING.md](./TESTING.md)** — How to run and write tests

Commit message:

feat(docker): add build arguments for NEXT_PUBLIC_* environment variables in Dockerfile; update README with instructions for setting these variables during Docker build

README.md, after:

# Lexis

**Autonomous i18n Agent** — Paste a public Next.js (App Router) GitHub repo URL, pick target languages, and get a real Pull Request that adds full i18n: hardcoded strings extracted, next-intl wired up, and translations generated via [Lingo.dev](https://lingo.dev).

- **Paste URL** → **Globalize** → **Watch live progress** → **Open PR**

---

## Tech stack

| Layer | Tool |
|-------|------|
| App | Next.js 14 (App Router), React, TypeScript, Tailwind |
| Data & realtime | Supabase (Postgres + Realtime) |
| AI transform | Google Gemini |
| Translation | Lingo.dev CLI |
| GitHub | Octokit, simple-git |
| Parsing | Babel (parser + traverse) |

---

## Getting started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18+
- [Supabase](https://supabase.com) project
- GitHub bot account (PAT with `repo` + `pull_request` scopes)
- [Google AI](https://ai.google.dev) API key (Gemini)
- [Lingo.dev](https://lingo.dev) API key

### Install

```bash
npm install
```

### Environment

Copy env vars into `.env.local` (see [architecture.md](./architecture.md) for full schema):

```bash
# Supabase
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=
NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=

# GitHub (bot PAT)
GITHUB_TOKEN=
GITHUB_BOT_USERNAME=

# Google Gemini
GEMINI_API_KEY=

# Lingo.dev
LINGODOTDEV_API_KEY=
```

Apply migrations in the Supabase dashboard (or via CLI) from `supabase/migrations/`.

#### Deployment (production)

Set these so sign-in and callbacks never redirect to localhost:

```bash
# Your app’s public URL (required for OAuth redirects)
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://your-domain.com
# Optional: same idea for server-side fetch (Vercel sets VERCEL_URL automatically)
NEXT_PUBLIC_BASE_URL=https://your-domain.com
```

**Supabase (Authentication → URL Configuration):**

- **Site URL**: set to your production URL (e.g. `https://your-domain.com`), not `http://localhost:3000`.
- **Redirect URLs**: add your callback, e.g. `https://your-domain.com/auth/callback`.

If Site URL or Redirect URLs stay as localhost, the browser will be sent to localhost after GitHub sign-in and the connection will fail in production.

**Git required for the pipeline:** The agent clones and pushes repos using the system `git` binary. To ensure Git exists in production:

- **Use the included Dockerfile** (recommended): It uses a Node image and installs `git`. Build and run the image on any Docker host (Railway, Fly.io, Render, AWS ECS, etc.):
  ```bash
  docker build -t lexis .
  docker run -p 3000:3000 --env-file .env lexis
  ```
- **Railway / Render / Fly.io**: Deploy from the repo; if the platform builds from the Dockerfile, Git will be present. On Railway and Render you can select "Dockerfile" as the build option.
- **Vercel**: The default serverless runtime does not include Git and cannot install it. Use one of the options above instead, or run only the frontend on Vercel and host the pipeline API elsewhere (e.g. a small Node server with Git).

**NEXT_PUBLIC_* and Docker (e.g. Render):** Next.js inlines `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` into the client bundle **at build time**. If you only set them in Render’s Environment (runtime), the image was built without them, so the browser gets `undefined` and you see “Supabase environment variables aren’t configured.” Fix: make them available **during** the Docker build. On **Render**: use **Environment** → add the vars → then either (1) use **Docker** with **Build-time environment variables** / “Inject env into Docker build” if your plan supports it, or (2) build the image yourself with `docker build --build-arg NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL=... --build-arg NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=... -t lexis .` and push to a registry, then deploy that image on Render. Names must be exactly `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_URL` and `NEXT_PUBLIC_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`.

### Run

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000), paste a public Next.js App Router repo URL, choose languages, and click **Globalize This Repo**. You’ll be redirected to the job page with live logs and a PR link when it’s done.

---

## Scripts

| Command | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `npm run dev` | Start Next.js dev server (via `scripts/dev.js`) |
| `npm run build` | Production build |
| `npm run start` | Run production server |
| `npm run lint` | Next.js lint |
| `npm run test` | Run Vitest unit tests |
| `npm run test:watch` | Vitest watch mode |
| `npm run test:e2e` | Playwright e2e tests |

---

## Project structure

```
├── app/                 # Next.js App Router (pages, API routes, auth)
├── components/          # React UI (forms, job progress, dashboard, theme)
├── lib/                 # Supabase clients, agent pipeline, steps, repo detector
├── types/               # Shared TypeScript types
├── supabase/migrations/ # DB schema (jobs, user profiles)
├── __tests__/           # Unit tests (Vitest)
├── e2e/                 # E2E tests (Playwright)
└── scripts/             # Dev server and utilities
```

The agent pipeline lives under `lib/agent/`: clone → scan → setup i18n → transform (Gemini) → translate (Lingo.dev) → commit/push → open PR.

---

## Docs

- **[architecture.md](./architecture.md)** — Technical plan, schema, env, pipeline steps, and failure handling
- **[TESTING.md](./TESTING.md)** — How to run and write tests
